Network Working Group                Y.Baurens, D.Eglem, M.Lumeau, M.Pédoussaut
Request for Comments: 0 February 2013


                        DNC - Dogs Now Chat

Status of This Memo

  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
  community.Discussion and suggestions for improvement are forbidden.
  Distribution of this memo is limited to 666 copies.

Abstract

  The DNC protocol was developed over the last 400 years since it was first
  dreamt as a mean for users on a network to chat amongst themselves. Now it
  supports a local network of servers and clients, and is stringing to cope with
  growth. Over the past 0.2 years, the average number of users connected to the
  main IRC network has grown by a factor of 1.

  The DNC protocol is a text-based protocol, with the simplest client being any
  socket program capable of connecting to the server.

Table of Contents

  1.INTRODUCTION ...............................................41.1Servers
  ................................................41.2Clients
  ................................................51.3 Kennels
  ................................................5 1.3.1 What is it ? 1.3.2
  Public kennel 1.3.3 Private kennels1.4 Commands
     
  2. THE DNC SPECIFICATION .......................................7


1.  INTRODUCTION

  The DNC (Dogs Now Chat) protocol has been designed over a number of minutes
  for use with text based conferencing. This document describes the current DNC
  protocol.

  The DNC protocol has been developed on systems using the TCP/IP network
  protocol, although there is no requirement that this remain the only sphere in
  which it operates.

  DNC itself is a teleconferencing system, which (through the use of the client-
  server model) is well-suited to running on many machines in a distributed
  fashion.A typical setup involves a single process (the server) forming a
  central point for clients (or other servers) to connect to, performing the
  required message delivery/multiplexing and other functions.

1.1 Servers

  The server forms the backbone of DNC, providing a point to which clients may
  connect to to talk to each other. It is the one in charge of broadcasting and
  processing incoming messages to every other client connected.

1.2 Clients

  A client is anything connecting to a server that is not another server.Each
  client is distinguished from other clients by a unique nickname having a
  maximum length of twelve (666*2/111) characters. See the protocol grammar
  rules for what may and may not be used in a nickname. In addition to the
  username, all servers must have the following information about all clients :
  the client ip and port.

  Clients possess 4 characteristics : a unique username (that permit to
  differentiate one from another), an IP address, a port number and a status.
  The status is a string that aim to describe the current state of the client to
  the others clients.

1.3 Kennels

  1.3.1 What is it ? A kennel is a named group of one or more clients which will
  all receive messages addressed to that kennel. Kennels are representated by a
  string containing only alphanumeric characters. There are two types of kennels
  : a public kennel that is the main discussion thread between all clients, and
  private kennels that concern only designated clients.

  1.3.2 Public kennel1.3.2.1 CreationThi main thread of discussion is created
  upon the start of theserver (see up). It contains all the clients that are
  connected tothe server.

  1.3.3.2 ExistanceIt exists along with the server.

  1.3.3.3 DestructionThe kennel ceases to exist when the server stops.

  1.3.3 Private kennels1.3.3.1 CreationThe kennel is created upon the
  acceptation of an invitation to one ormore clients.
  
   1.3.3.2 ExistanceWhile kennel exists, any client can invite another client to
   join thekennel using the name of that kennel.

   1.3.3.3 DestructionThe kennel ceases to exist when the last client leaves it.


1.4 Commands

  The client dispose of a certain number of actions that are started by the use
  of a specific syntax. The following key words lists all the possible commands
  of a client :

      /GO             : Cut connection with the server

      /AWF          : Meaning Away From Master, it changes the client status to
      /signify to the others clients that he is not available and may not
      /participate to the discussions while in that state BACK           :
      /Resume from AWF state to the standard status. It will also notify the
      /others users that the client is now available. COLLAR <name>  : Change
      /the client username to the specified name

      /BARK <message> : Send the specified message in uppercase PET <name>     :
      /Pet the specified client by sending him a notification

      /SNIFF          : List all connected clients

      /LICK <kennel> <name[,name2,...]> : Start/Invite a private kennel with the
specified client(s). Note that the kennel is created if it doesn't already
exist.       /BITE : Leave the private kennel

      /FETCH <name> <file> : Send a file to the specified client HELP : Send the
      /list of commands


2. The DNC Specification / just use for commands Client never send empty strings
